<p>This portfolio has been revised with minor amends based on the reviewers feedback and the revised sections are in dark blue and bold type font shown here in the various sections of the portfolio.







Figure 1: Illustration of Kulvir walking and holding an art portfolio with various words around him. 



This is my contextual statement for my CMALT portfolio.

I am from the Sikh faith and my name ‘Kulvir’ means brother of bravery. The word ‘Sikh’ means to learn, to strive to be a better human being, to improve ourselves and to always be actively learning something new every day. 

I have worked within the Higher Education sector for 12 years. Starting at the OU studying on the PGCE programme and to the OU Anywhere app project which led to the iTunesU project. After which I joined the OU as a permanent member of staff in the Maths, Computing and Technology team and then moving on to the Science Faculty. 

Realising that I have had a wide range of experiences in numerous projects - I felt that now was a good time to reflect upon my practice in my technical skills and supporting academics in the co-creation of online courses. 

I was working as a Learning Design Officer in the Teaching and Learning Enhancement team in Warwick Business School at Warwick University (joined in August 2021 – February 2023). I will then be transitioning to start my new role as a Digital Development Manager in the Faculty of Business and Law at The Open University in March 2023.

Prior to this role I worked as Digital Development Editor at The Open University in the FutureLearn microcredentials production team (from September 2019 to July 2021). 

Previously I worked at Coventry University Online as a Learning Designer for 20 months (January 2018 to August 2019). 

Prior to that role I worked at The Open University as a Media Assistant for five and a half years (June 2012 to January 2018). In 2011 to 2012 I trained to become a secondary school design and technology teacher via a PGCE at The Open University. However, I decided to change careers and joined the OU as a Media Assistant. 

Recently graduated with a Master of Arts in Online Distance Education at The Open University (June 2020). The postgraduate qualification took me 5 years to complete studying part time. For my final project I created a research proposal to compare estimated study times to actual study times for students studying in FutureLearn courses.

I started my career in working towards teacher training having taught Art and Design in the Art Gallery and Museum settings back in 2007. I have also led workshops for a group of webmasters on how to use WordPress in 2016 as part of their migration from HTML sites. The voluntary work gave me the opportunity to plan workshops and to teach the group from various levels in getting them started on WordPress.

My reasons for applying for CMALT are:

1. To celebrate my successes so far, but to complete a long-standing goal.

2. To pause and reflect on my career. 

3. To network with other like-minded individuals.

4. To collate all my experience both professionally and personally into one single portfolio.

5. To be a positive role model for other ethnic minorities who may wish to complete their CMALT portfolios too. 

Completing my CMALT has been an ongoing goal for myself to complete. However, due to a change of job and coming out of the post pandemic era – I was unable to complete my portfolio. I also felt that having worked within the domains of learning design for 5-12 years as a course developer, now seemed to be a good time to ‘take stock’ and to look back at my achievements with both a lens of gratitude but also with a pragmatic and holistic collective view. 



Figure 2: Photograph of Kulvir Bahra

Table of my online profiles

Name	Kulvir Bahra

Orcid ID	https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3607-826X 

LinkedIn	https://www.linkedin.com/in/kulvir-bahra-06040723b/ 

Twitter	@kulvirbahra

Mastodon	https://mastodon.social/@Kulvir_B

Email	Kulvir.bahra@protonmail.com



